I buhdeuce yen I know you've been rather
critical of direct action everywhere
lately and and I understand the the
reasons that you have for that but I
also have seen you know we all sought
with Occupy Wall Street that was another
kind of disorganized you know everybody
felt different things but they did have
an impact I mean whether it was just to
kind of awake in a certain sense in a
gestalt in a certain segment of the
population it can still have its own
kind of effectiveness because I think
all of us are interested in different
things some people are more interested
in that organized political movement
that were more or more interested in
businesses that are vegan and then
there's the people who want to just
protest something so and then there's
room for that too I think well yeah
there's room I mean the great thing
about didn't know the great thing about
capitalism is there's always room for
new ideas there are terrible things but
capitalism too but you know I was in
Saskatchewan during the organized Wall
Street phenomenon and I like to compare
you know there's sort of the politics of
the year the politics of the decade the
politics of the century the politics of
the millennium and for me the contrast
was between Occupy Wall Street which
came and went in a year and from my
perspective I think it was a failure I
could say why but I need to say and yeah
I lived in Edmonton at that time and we
had people sleeping outside six months
it wasn't it wasn't weird weird schedule
to Edmonton uh right right but me right
right next to occupy wall street we had
protests that time linked to First
Nations you know I mean obviously can
often you do but at that time in
Saskatchewan in particular we had a big
we had a big movement a big series of
rallies or see it was like ok to me this
is the politics of the year and then
over here we have the politics of the
century and the politics essentially
they've been going on for a hundred
years and it's still gonna be quite here
so now and you know to me this is really
important in deep and people are really
there is high stakes build a lot
involved what have you and yeah like you
say you do need that you need that
couple of percent and unfortunately with
any movements for for native peoples
here in canada we just do not have the
kind of support that we should have from
the general population and that oh sure
in saskatchewan in saskatchewan there
was basically one law firm that was
crucial to every single First Nations
yes and I'm not saying they were bad
laufer but it was just obviously I was
doing that kind of research they bought
every single case it's the one lawyer
it's the one law firm without that guy
you know none of this none of this would
have happened yeah yeah yeah and you
know also I mean there are other senses
in which the the First Nation situation
is lamentable I went to one of those
protests with my wife but you know at
those protests people will be playing
the drums and singing songs but they
don't know any lyrics to the songs in
inquiry you know language has gone to
that extent where they're just they're
making kind of nonsense noises that
sound like create but you know I pointed
out to my wife we're at one of those
events i said look it sounds like
they're singing and Kree but they're not
you know it's it's just chanting San
once and you'll I I myself at scenic
library that type of song it had lyrics
luckily there was a time with this song
would have been about something you know
we're just at the point of the cultural
egg which is a period but anyway for me
this question of the politics of the
century the politics of the millennium
um I think whether or not I want um you
know veganism to be part of the politics
of the century I think it has to be I
think it's that kind of long-term slow
um you know movement cultural movement
for cultural change that the sense in
which i think the comparison to
evolution of alcohol is important is
that it does also have this tremendous
moral gravitas to it and now you know I
I'm tolerant if I don't drink alcohol
myself but I think human beings are
going to drink alcohol it's always going
to be part of our society but I just
mean that that that movement the
movement to make alcohol illegal that
could have never gone anywhere if it was
just based on the number of people
obviously was based on the fact that
that small minority had a claim that had
cultural resonance and religious
significance and moral significance way
beyond way beyond the numbers so I think
that that ultimately has to be the kind
of position that veganism is is going to
play is not my choice I would love it
for veganism to be a fast-moving you
know lightning quick powerful you know
political movement um I know yeah losing
so many vegans is a challenge because we
do so many people just give up because
they
ostracized and alone and I think that is
part of the challenge and I think that's
one area where YouTube helps a lot is
that at least it gives people the chance
to talk to other people who are vegan to
see people talking and there's kind of
minimal involvement necessary if you're
just watching a video on youtube it can
make you feel better without having to
really do that much on your own although
we do want to see people starting to get
involved in real-world activism sure but
I'm sure they just mentioned about that
you know there was a guy here at my
school he's now long gone I stay here
longer than any other students so I see
students coming seasons go and he was a
jokester he grew up in Philadelphia um
bit of a rough town so he he knew how to
pick a fight you know what a joke his
way out of a fight just that kind of
character which she don't meet that
often these days cuz these days most
people just play video games so anyway
he was a funny guy he joked around a lot
and he often a couple times he pretended
he was starting a fistfight with me in
the cafeteria here which he wasn't but
anyway so memorable character and we
only had one serious conversation but in
that conversation he admitted me to the
first time the when he was living in the
United States he was actually living in
California he ate meat only once per
month which began as a surprise okay so
he's obviously a pretty serious reducer
tarian but the next thing he said to me
which again he said very seriously sort
of he was uncharacteristically serious
as he thought it with this he said when
I become a vegetarian and he stopped and
he said I meant to say if I become a
vegetarian it would be for purely
political reasons to me I completely
identify for me the difference between
being a reducer tarian and being a vegan
is a political commitment I in terms of
another contrasting example you know we
had a guy here who's ex-military a lot
of muscle on his body but also a lot of
fat over 50 years old he's on all this
medication including for heart condition
and blood pressure I saw his diet I saw
him eat every day I maybe didn't see him
three meals they have a two meals a day
he ate meat dairy and eggs at every meal
here but nevertheless his meat
consumption in China was so much lower
than
had been in the united states that he
had to stop taking his medication for
those conditions including blood
pressure he was cured and I can't even
call his diet reduce it area he was
eating the amount of meat Chinese field
which is a few little scraps of meat and
the rest is rice and vegetables and I i
I'd said to him what the hell do you eat
when you're in America obviously you
know cheeseburgers or what have you you
know so I I wish you only got the health
benefits when you were one hundred
percent vegan but it's not true and all
those Health Studies on you know the
Okinawa Islanders and the different
native peoples of the lovely none of
them are vegan they may feel they have
right they have lower meet and even you
know some of the studies from California
to talk about vegetarians and vegans who
are seventh-day Adventists those guys
are not vegan when you read the fine
print they need once in a while those
guys which you know again I'm not hating
on them but these are also basically
reduced to Terrance so the commitments
to never wear leather shoes which to me
is a very simple very fundamental thing
III only see people getting their
through through politics I either see
getting through politics or yeah I'm
just curious annuda fine that a little
bit because to me it's more of an
ethical decision that you see right well
I was just writing about that in Chinese
you know I really feel I'm gonna try to
nail right this and in Chinese
convincingly but you know I think if you
decide or if your father decides to quit
smoking it may be for him a private
ethical decision it may even be a
religious decision some people find
religion and quit smoking I've seen such
things sure in that sense we maybe just
ethical or maybe just personal maybe
just a lifestyle choice but the decision
that we should quit smoking that nobody
equipment that I don't want my daughter
to smoke the rest I don't want you to
sponsor I don't want anyone in our
community of smoke cigarettes that I
want to move forward on that that social
scale theoretically you don't want you
want everyone in the world stop smoking
but hey we're not going to worry about
in Lebanon we're not trying to get
people to quit smoking we're trying to
get fewer people shot in Syria right now
I mean there are places where smoking is
a low priority we don't think those
things but that's when it must become
political so for me veganism from me
veganism every day I
at the table with people who he meet so
right now the total number of students
the school is small in the past comes
and go several times but let's say there
are seven students in the school if all
seven of us were vegan this kitchen
would stop buying meat and would stop
cooking me yeah if even one student eats
meat then they buy meat every day and
cook meat for the students me right so
sometimes you're there have been like
two of two other students who were
vegetarian we've never had any actual
vegan see or sever myself okay I have
zero impact as long as I'm only one
vegan even though they're only six other
meters my in fact is zero it has to
become political because as soon as we
care about outcomes the ethics in terms
of how you feel in your soul maybe
they're meaningful insensibility
outcomes they're completely meaningless
it's only when we move up to this social
scale now oddly in this school the the
executive director is vegan so it's
literally true if all seven students
were vegan then she would get rid of the
meat while we had those seven students
here we could have one month or
something with nobody that's cool but if
you can't reach that scale of some kind
of functional community the whole school
can be vegan the whole prison can be
eaten the whole workplace can be vegan
your whole apartment building can be
vegan or something it's too much to
think of a city being vegan these days
but when it's one know when it's one
person you never impact outcomes
whatsoever neither in terms of shoes or
what have you even seen that my own home
obviously because when we um initially
stopped buying meat and then it's just
been kind of a gradual transition and my
husband finally decided he doesn't want
to eat eggs anymore either so that's the
first time because we stopped buying
dairy products a long time ago but um we
just finally so now there's you know
this is the last carton of eggs and so
that's a it's been been interesting and
of course now it is different when you
do when you're when you get a whole
group to commit to something like that
so you are more pragmatic and
utilitarian in that sense yes well I you
know I don't see this as you told there
in but I mean you know for me taxation
obviously has such a clear connection to
something veganism you know we didn't
make cigarettes illegal we just raise
taxes on them and taxes communicated a
whole moral message in health mess
nails just threw a dollar sign up for me
I see no reason why we can't have a
twenty-five percent tax on leather shoes
and if you want to sweeten it for people
you know you can have inverse taxation
you can have a 10-percent discount on
all the non leather shoes you can make
them even cheaper by reallocating some
of the money and again for me that
communicates a message beyond merely
putting money in the government's pocket
saying people hey guess what now in 2016
leather is obsolete you can actually do
everything you need with it with it
leather and that's you know now
something can say isn't that forcing
your beliefs on people we force our
beliefs on people every day that's what
politics is that's the core upon but the
core functions we got organized so that
we can force their beliefs and you my
beliefs include clean drinking water and
the government has a giant conspiracy to
make sure everyone gets clean drinking
water I want you to suffer from my
belief that you should be able to turn a
tab to get clean drinking water we're
all forcing our beliefs on everyone all
the time and that's that's politics in a
nutshell yeah i banished yen you know
from your point of view what does OG
meet told you that president has been
there look out you know that puts you
all game tell you to write it wrong but
not necessarily force it on you the OG
and really go for nothing on you but he
is gonna tell you you the options you
got this is what option hey does is what
option B does you can make an option see
you know and if y'all'd you're not doing
that you're doing it ah bah Luo Yin